README.rst, before:

Confluent Operator Early Access
===============================

The next version of Confluent Operator offers a Kubernetes-native experience, including:

* First class Kubernetes custom resource definitions (CRDs)
* Config overrides for all Confluent components
* Auto generated certificates
* Kubernetes tolerations, pod/node affinity support

Check out the product in action: `Kubernetes-Native DevOps with Confluent Operator <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lqoZSs_swVI&feature=youtu.be>`_

Get early access by registering interest here: `Confluent Operator Early Access Registration <https://events.confluent.io/confluentoperatorearlyaccess>`_

This repository is structured into Concepts and Scenario workflows:

* Read Concepts to understand how Confluent on Kubernetes works, and should be architected.
* Use Scenario workflows to deploy and manage Confluent on Kubernetes for various use cases.

==================
Scenario workflows
==================

Clone the following repo to get the files needed for each workflow:

::

  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/operator-earlyaccess.git
  
The documentation is organized as scenario workflows:

* Quickstart

  * `Deploy simple non-secure Confluent Platform <./quickstart-deploy>`_

* Secure deployment

  * `Production recommended secure deployment <./production-secure-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with encryption and authentication <./secure-authn-encrypt-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with RBAC authorization <./cp-rbac-deploy>`_

* External Access

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access through Load Balancer <./external-access-load-balancer-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access through NodePorts <./external-access-nodeport-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access using static host-based routing <./external-access-static-host-based>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access using static port-based routing <./external-access-static-port-based>`_

* Multi-AZ deployment

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform to a multi-zone Kubernetes cluster, with Kafka rack awareness configured <./rackawareness>`_

* Connect to Confluent Cloud

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform to connect and monitor multiple Connect and ksqlDB clusters <./controlcenter-multi-ksql-connect>`_

.. _ea-credentials:

==============
Pre-requisites
==============

This Confluent Operator Early Access is compatible with Confluent Platform 6.0.

To use this Confluent Operator Early Access, you’ll need:

* A Kubernetes cluster - any CNCF conformant version
* Helm 3 installed on your local machine
* Kubectl installed on your local machine

=============================
Set up the Kubernetes cluster
=============================

Set up the Kubernetes cluster for this tutorial.

#. Add or get access to a Kubernetes cluster.

#. Create the namespace and set it to the current namespace. In this tutorial, we will deploy Confluent Platform in the ``confluent`` namespace.

   ::
   
     kubectl create namespace confluent
   
   ::

     kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=confluent

==================================
Configure Early Access credentials
==================================

#. For this Early Access program, you will have received an API key (associated with your email address) to the Confluent JFrog Artifactory.

#. Save the API key and your email for easy access while running this tutorial:

   ::

     export USER=<your email address>
     export EMAIL=<your email address>
     export APIKEY=<your API key>

#. Create a Kubernetes secret with the registry credentials:

   ::
   
     kubectl create secret docker-registry confluent-registry \
       --docker-server=confluent-docker-internal-early-access-operator-2.jfrog.io \   
       --docker-username=$USER \
             --docker-password=$APIKEY \
             --docker-email=$EMAIL

#. The Confluent Operator itself is packaged as a Helm Chart. Add a Helm repo:

   ::

     helm repo add confluentinc_earlyaccess \
       https://confluent.jfrog.io/confluent/helm-early-access-operator-2 \
       --username $USER \
       --password $APIKEY

   :: 
   
     helm repo update
     
.. _download_tutorials:

============================================
Download Confluent Operator tutorial package
============================================

Download the tutorial package from the Git Hub repo:

::

  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/operator-earlyaccess.git
  
.. _remove_tutorials:
  
==============================================
Remove Confluent Operator tutorial environment
==============================================

When you finish running the scenarios in the Confluent Operator tutorial
packages, remove the namespace, the secret, and the Helm repo with the following
command:

::

  kubectl delete secret docker-registry
  
:: 

  helm repo remove confluentinc_earlyaccess
  
::

  kubectl delete namespace confluent

Commit message:

Point to CFK GA docs

README.rst, after:

Confluent for Kubernetes is now Generally Available! You can find the docs at https://docs.confluent.io/operator/current/overview.html and the examples repo at https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-kubernetes-examples.


[OLD] Confluent Operator Early Access
=====================================

The next version of Confluent Operator offers a Kubernetes-native experience, including:

* First class Kubernetes custom resource definitions (CRDs)
* Config overrides for all Confluent components
* Auto generated certificates
* Kubernetes tolerations, pod/node affinity support

Check out the product in action: `Kubernetes-Native DevOps with Confluent Operator <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lqoZSs_swVI&feature=youtu.be>`_

Get early access by registering interest here: `Confluent Operator Early Access Registration <https://events.confluent.io/confluentoperatorearlyaccess>`_

This repository is structured into Concepts and Scenario workflows:

* Read Concepts to understand how Confluent on Kubernetes works, and should be architected.
* Use Scenario workflows to deploy and manage Confluent on Kubernetes for various use cases.

==================
Scenario workflows
==================

Clone the following repo to get the files needed for each workflow:

::

  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/operator-earlyaccess.git
  
The documentation is organized as scenario workflows:

* Quickstart

  * `Deploy simple non-secure Confluent Platform <./quickstart-deploy>`_

* Secure deployment

  * `Production recommended secure deployment <./production-secure-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with encryption and authentication <./secure-authn-encrypt-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with RBAC authorization <./cp-rbac-deploy>`_

* External Access

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access through Load Balancer <./external-access-load-balancer-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access through NodePorts <./external-access-nodeport-deploy>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access using static host-based routing <./external-access-static-host-based>`_
  * `Deploy Confluent Platform with external access using static port-based routing <./external-access-static-port-based>`_

* Multi-AZ deployment

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform to a multi-zone Kubernetes cluster, with Kafka rack awareness configured <./rackawareness>`_

* Connect to Confluent Cloud

  * `Deploy Confluent Platform to connect and monitor multiple Connect and ksqlDB clusters <./controlcenter-multi-ksql-connect>`_

.. _ea-credentials:

==============
Pre-requisites
==============

This Confluent Operator Early Access is compatible with Confluent Platform 6.0.

To use this Confluent Operator Early Access, you’ll need:

* A Kubernetes cluster - any CNCF conformant version
* Helm 3 installed on your local machine
* Kubectl installed on your local machine

=============================
Set up the Kubernetes cluster
=============================

Set up the Kubernetes cluster for this tutorial.

#. Add or get access to a Kubernetes cluster.

#. Create the namespace and set it to the current namespace. In this tutorial, we will deploy Confluent Platform in the ``confluent`` namespace.

   ::
   
     kubectl create namespace confluent
   
   ::

     kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=confluent

==================================
Configure Early Access credentials
==================================

#. For this Early Access program, you will have received an API key (associated with your email address) to the Confluent JFrog Artifactory.

#. Save the API key and your email for easy access while running this tutorial:

   ::

     export USER=<your email address>
     export EMAIL=<your email address>
     export APIKEY=<your API key>

#. Create a Kubernetes secret with the registry credentials:

   ::
   
     kubectl create secret docker-registry confluent-registry \
       --docker-server=confluent-docker-internal-early-access-operator-2.jfrog.io \   
       --docker-username=$USER \
             --docker-password=$APIKEY \
             --docker-email=$EMAIL

#. The Confluent Operator itself is packaged as a Helm Chart. Add a Helm repo:

   ::

     helm repo add confluentinc_earlyaccess \
       https://confluent.jfrog.io/confluent/helm-early-access-operator-2 \
       --username $USER \
       --password $APIKEY

   :: 
   
     helm repo update
     
.. _download_tutorials:

============================================
Download Confluent Operator tutorial package
============================================

Download the tutorial package from the Git Hub repo:

::

  git clone git@github.com:confluentinc/operator-earlyaccess.git
  
.. _remove_tutorials:
  
==============================================
Remove Confluent Operator tutorial environment
==============================================

When you finish running the scenarios in the Confluent Operator tutorial
packages, remove the namespace, the secret, and the Helm repo with the following
command:

::

  kubectl delete secret docker-registry
  
:: 

  helm repo remove confluentinc_earlyaccess
  
::

  kubectl delete namespace confluent
